If vacillation dwell with the heart the soul will rue it . Shame and honour clash where the courage of a steadfast . man is motley like the magpie . But such a man may yet make merry , for Heaven and Hell have equal part in him . Infidelity's friend is black all over and takes on a murky hue , while the man of loyal temper holds to the white . This winged comparison is too swift for unripe wits . They lack the power to grasp it . For it will wrench past them like a startled hare ! So it is with a dull mirror on a blind mans dream . These reveal faces in dim outline . But the dark image does not abide , it gives but a moments joy . Who tweaks my palm where never a hair did grow ? He would have learnt close grips indeed ! Where I to cry Oh '! in fear of that it would mark me as a fool . Shall I find loyalty where it must vanish , like fire in in a well or dew in the sun ? On the other hand I have yet to meet a man so wise that he would not gladly know where guidance this story requires , what edification it brings . The tale never loses heart , but flees and pursues , turns tail and wheels to the attack and doles out blame and praise . The man who follows all these vicissitudes and neither too long nor goes astray and otherwise knows where he stands has been well served by mother wit . Feigned friendship leads to the fire , it destroys a man's nobility like hail . Its loyalty is so short in the tail that if it meets in the wood with gadflies it will not quit a bite in three . These manifold distinctions do not all relate to men . I shall set these marks as a challenge to women . Let any who would from me beware to whom she takes her honour and good name , beware whom she makes free of her love and precious person . Lest she regret the loss of both chastity and affection . With god as my witness I bid good women restraint . The lock guarding all good ways is modest - I need not wish them and fortune . The false will gain a name for falsity . How lasting is thin ice in Augusts torrid sun ? Their credit will pass on as soon as away . The beauty of many has been praised far and wide ; but if there hearts be counterfeit I note them as I should a bead set in gold . But I do not reckon it a towdry thing when the noble ruby with all its virtues is fashioned into base brass , for this I would liken to the spirit of true woman-hood . When a woman acts to the best of her nature you will not find me surveying her complexion or probing what shields her heart : if she be well proofed within her breasts her good name is safe from harm . Now if I were to judge of men and women as I know them a long story it would be hear , then , what manner of tale this is , telling of things both pleasant and sad , with joy and trouble for company . Great there were three of me , each with skill to match mine : there would still be need of unbridled inspiration to tell you what , single-handed , I have a mind to tell ! I will renew a tale that tells of great fidelity of unborn womanhood and manly virtue so straight as never was bent in any test of hardness . Steel that he was , his courage never failed him , his crnquering hand seized many a glorious prize when he came to battle . Dauntless man though , lagg and in discretion ! - Thus I salute the here . - Sweet balm to womans eyes , yet woman heart's disease ! Shunner of all wrong doing ! As yet he is unborn to this story whom I have chosen for the part . The man of whom this tale is told and all the marvels in it . There is a custom still observed today whenever our western neighbours lews prevail . It holds even on German soil in one odd corner - you dont need me to tell you that ! Whoever it was that held those territories yonder ruled . - nor was it shame to him . - that the eldest brother ( strange though true ) should have his fathers whole inheri-tance . That death should sever the rights of which their farthers life assured them was the cadets misfortune . Before the held in common . No the eldest holds alone . Was that not a wise man who laid it down . that age should have possessions ? - Youth has it fills of good things , eld of sighs and sorrows ! - There never was a fate so pitiful as age cum poverty !' I will not palter with the truth that kings , counts dukes should suffer dispossesion of their acres , all but the oldest son - what an outlandish audiance ! 